##Network Code Editor
A semester project by Ryan Yosua, Eric Panulla, Shane Eckenrode, Jose Ponte
####To compile the program:
1. Install Apache Ant: https://ant.apache.org/
2. Open a command line window and navigate to the project directory.
3. Run the command: ant
    in the project directory.

####To run the program:
1. Change directory to bin by running the command: cd bin/
2. Run the server by running the command: java server.main.ServerApp
3. Open up a new command line window and navigate to the bin directory in the project.
4. Run the client by running the command: java client.main.ClientApp
5. Repeat steps #3 and #4 to open more clients.

####Final ReportOur main purpose with this project was to build a collaborative code editing applicationgeared toward helping developers to collectively code their projects. Similar to the way inwhich users experience Google Docs, our application allows users to edit a file in realtimewhile also allowing them to send messages to each other using the chat window. Using theJava.net package for networking, our application allows users to choose an alias name andestablish connections to a “room” based on an IP address. Once connected, the application’smultithreadedinterface allows users to concurrently edit code using the main editor window.All users may choose to save a copy of the file being worked on by using the save button, anda file that is already loaded is autosaved every 30 seconds. Any user may load a file into theeditor that everyone else may edit.
Compared to our proposed application, it was necessary to adjust and adapt in a fewareas to improve the application overall.We initially proposed that clients would be able tochoose if they wanted to start or join a session. In the current design, each session has itsown server, so we ask users to input a server IP to connect to upon starting the application.This implementation allows for different servers being able to be set up for multiple groups ofusers. User authentication through a database would have been more secure, but ourapplication still has many use cases where authentication is not an issue including opensource software development, and educational use. If a server is hosted behind a firewall on aprivate network, than authentication is also unnecessary. Also we simplified the idea ofsharing entire directories and files among users in the application. Only one loaded file isshared at a time, but if the user loads a directory, they can easily switch between files byclicking on a file from the list on the left.
We initially wanted to use the Java database for data persistence but due to time weopted to use saving and loading of files directly to a users pc. This method of data persistenceallows any user to load a file if they want or just start from a blank page. Once the file hasbeen worked on, each user may save a copy of the file onto their own pc using the savebutton, and the data will be the same for every user as long as new changes aren’t made afterclicking the save button. Because each session has it’s own server, the database of users didnot add as much value.
Furthermore, we also managed to add an extra chat feature. Although not in theoriginal proposal, a chat feature was added to to improve collaboration while editing a file. Wesaw fit that this kind of feature could be very crucial in an application where multiple usersinteract with a document. This implementation was based on material we learned throughclass exercises and added to increasing the usability of the application to developers.
The overall usability of the NCE (Network Code Editor), as originally proposed, wasalmost fully implemented throughout the application. The few features such as the “RoomLogin” and the “Directories Sharing” not included in our final application, were replaced bymore efficient and timesavingfeatures which are fully functional. Many of those featurescould be a goals for further development of our current working application.